# Loan Default Prediction
This repository is to contain my experience with applying ML models in sufficiently challenging tasks available in Kaggle and described below.
1. **Loan Default Prediction**: The objective is to determine whether a person applying for a loan amount will be defaulted, considering their financial background and
specific personal details. This is a part of an ongoing Kaggle competition https://www.kaggle.com/c/credit-default-prediction-ai-big-data/overview.
My goal is to convert this project to an end-to-end mode such that the model deployed can be freely used by any user.
2. **Description**: According to my understanding, one of the key challenge in this competition lies in the imbalanced nature of the datasets which is probably common to several
classification problems. I found this to be true here particularly after facing continuous struggle in improving the model accuracy prior to applying SMOTE. It is worth mentioning that the evalation metric used to rank a submission is the f1 score which significantly varies upto fourth term after decimal. The highest score at present is about 0.5643 which involves a highly sophisticated model. My experimentatio has primarily been with CatBoost, XGBoost and RandomForest, and after a significant number of trials, I acheived a score 0f 0.48571 with RandomForest which ranks in 82nd position. A rather peculiar observation I had is that majority of the times, the actual score of the model did not correlate with its performance on the test dataset prepared from train-test split
